Very Important to Visit here first


* EEF Drive


The soul purpose here is practice


Unit 1


Q1. Who is known as the father of modern economics?
A) Karl Marx
B) Adam Smith
C) John Maynard Keynes
D) Milton Friedman
Answer: B) Adam Smith
Q2. What is a free market?
A) A market where goods are given away for free
B) A market where the government controls all economic activity
C) A market where consumers and producers make their own decisions with no government interference
D) A market where prices are fixed by the government
Answer: C) A market where consumers and producers make their own decisions with no government interference
Q3. What is the economic problem?
A. The unlimited supply of wants and needs
B. The limited supply of resources to fulfill unlimited wants and needs
C. The limited supply of wants and needs
D. The unlimited supply of resources to fulfill wants and needs
Answer: B. The limited supply of resources to fulfill unlimited wants and needs
Q4. What are the factors of production?
A. Land, labor, capital, and entrepreneurship
B. Goods, services, land, and labor
C. Rent, wages, interest, and profit
D. Demand, supply, production, and consumption
Answer: A. Land, labor, capital, and entrepreneurship
Q5. What is the opportunity cost?
A. The cost expressed in terms of the next best alternative sacrificed
B. The cost expressed in terms of the most expensive alternative chosen
C. The cost expressed in terms of the least expensive alternative chosen
D. The cost expressed in terms of the original choice made
Answer: A. The cost expressed in terms of the next best alternative sacrificed
Q6. What is scarcity?
A. The excess of resources resulting from unlimited wants
B. The excess of wants resulting from unlimited resources
C. The excess of resources resulting from limited wants
D. The excess of wants resulting from limited resources
Answer: D. The excess of wants resulting from limited resources
Q7. What is the function of entrepreneurship?
A. Refers to the management, organization, and planning of the other three factors of production
B. Refers to the physical and mental effort of people used in production
C. Refers to all non-natural (manufactured) resources that are used in the creation and production of other products
D. Refers to the natural resources available for production
Answer: A. Refers to the management, organization, and planning of the other three factors of production




Q8. What is a market demand curve?
a) The alternative prices of a good that all consumers in a particular market are willing and able to buy as quantity varies, holding all other factors constant.
b) The alternative quantities of a good that all producers in a particular market are willing and able to supply as price varies, holding all other factors constant.
c) The alternative quantities of a good that all consumers in a particular market are willing and able to buy as price varies, holding all other factors constant.
d) The alternative prices of a good that all producers in a particular market are willing and able to supply as quantity varies, holding all other factors constant.
Answer: c) The alternative quantities of a good that all consumers in a particular market are willing and able to buy as price varies, holding all other factors constant.
Q9. What is a movement along a demand curve?
a) A shift in the position of the demand curve due to a change in one of the factors being held constant.
b) A change in the quantity demanded due to a change in one of the factors being held constant.
c) A change in both quantity demanded and price due to a change in one of the factors being held constant.
d) A shift in the position of the supply curve due to a change in one of the factors being held constant.
Answer: b) A change in the quantity demanded due to a change in one of the factors being held constant.
Q10. What are the other factors that are held constant in a movement along a demand curve?
a) Prices of other goods including substitutes and complements, aggregate consumer money income, consumer population, and non-economic factors.
b) Aggregate producer money income, producer population, and non-economic factors.
c) Prices of other goods including substitutes and complements, consumer population, and non-economic factors.
d) None of the above.
Answer: a) Prices of other goods including substitutes and complements, aggregate consumer money income, consumer population, and non-economic factors.
Q11. What is a shift in the position of the demand curve?
a) A change in the quantity demanded due to a change in one of the factors being held constant.
b) A change in both quantity demanded and price due to a change in one of the factors being held constant.
c) A shift in the position of the supply curve due to a change in one of the factors being held constant.
d) A shift in the position of the demand curve due to a change in one of the factors being held constant.
Answer: d) A shift in the position of the demand curve due to a change in one of the factors being held constant.
Q12. What is a demand shifter?
a) A factor that leads consumers to change demand quantities at the same price.
b) A factor that leads producers to change supply quantities at the same price.
c) A factor that affects both demand and supply quantities at the same price.
d) None of the above.
Answer: a) A factor that leads consumers to change demand quantities at the same price.
Q13. What is the effect of an increase in population on the demand curve?
a) The demand curve shifts to the left.
b) The demand curve shifts to the right.
c) The slope of the demand curve becomes steeper.
d) The slope of the demand curve becomes flatter.
Answer: b) The demand curve shifts to the right.
Q14 What is the effect of an increase in the price of a substitute on the demand curve?
a) The demand curve shifts to the left.
b) The demand curve shifts to the right.
c) The slope of the demand curve becomes steeper.
d) The slope of the demand curve becomes flatter.
Answer: b) The demand curve shifts to the right.




Q15. What is the relationship between supply quantity and output price?
a) Inverse
b) Direct
c) No relationship
d) Indeterminate
Answer: b) Direct
Q16. What are the factors that determine supply quantity?
a) Output price
b) Input prices
c) Price of alternative output
d) All of the above
Answer: d) All of the above
Q17. What is the supply curve?
a) Relationship between supply quantity and input price
b) Relationship between demand and supply
c) Relationship between supply quantity and output price
d) Relationship between production and consumption
Answer: c) Relationship between supply quantity and output price
Q18. What is a movement along a supply curve?
a) Change in supply
b) Change in quantity supplied
c) Change in demand
d) None of the above
Answer: b) Change in quantity supplied
Q19. What is a shift in the position of the supply curve?
a) Change in supply
b) Change in quantity supplied
c) Change in demand
d) None of the above
Answer: a) Change in supply
Q20. Which of the following is a supply shifter?
a) Input prices
b) Alternative output prices
c) Technology
d) All of the above
Answer: d) All of the above
Q21. What happens to the supply curve when input prices decrease?
a) Shifts to the right
b) Shifts to the left
c) Remains unchanged
d) Can shift either way
Answer: a) Shifts to the right
Q22. What happens to the supply curve when technology improves?
a) Shifts to the right
b) Shifts to the left
c) Remains unchanged
d) Can shift either way
Answer: a) Shifts to the right
Q23. What is the slope of the supply curve?
a) Positive
b) Negative
c) Zero
d) Indeterminate
Answer: a) Positive
Q24. What is the opportunity cost of not producing other commodities?
a) Input prices
b) Alternative output prices
c) Technology
d) Noneconomic factors
Answer: b) Alternative output prices


Q25. What is the equilibrium price?
a) The price at which quantity demanded is less than quantity supplied
b) The price at which quantity demanded is greater than quantity supplied
c) The price at which quantity demanded equals quantity supplied
d) The price at which there is no demand or supply
Answer: c) The price at which quantity demanded equals quantity supplied
Q26. What does excess supply mean?
a) The quantity that consumers are willing to buy is less than the quantity producers are willing to sell
b) The quantity that consumers are willing to buy is equal to the quantity producers are willing to sell
c) The quantity that consumers are willing to buy is greater than the quantity producers are willing to sell
d) There is no excess supply in a market
Answer: a) The quantity that consumers are willing to buy is less than the quantity producers are willing to sell
Q27. In a perfectly competitive market, can prices other than the equilibrium price be sustained?
a) Yes
b) No
Answer: b) No
Q28. What happens when the price is above the equilibrium price?
a) There is excess demand
b) There is no demand or supply
c) There is excess supply
d) The market is in equilibrium
Answer: c) There is excess supply
Q29. What is engineering efficiency?
a) A measure of the benefits and costs associated with engineering projects
b) The ratio between the energy needed to power an engine or process and the energy the engine or process creates
c) The efficient allocation of goods and factors of production in an economy
d) The application of engineering design and analysis principles to provide goods and services
Answer: b) The ratio between the energy needed to power an engine or process and the energy the engine or process creates
Q30. What is economic efficiency?
a) The ratio between the energy needed to power an engine or process and the energy the engine or process creates
b) The efficient allocation of goods and factors of production in an economy
c) The application of engineering design and analysis principles to provide goods and services
d) A measure of the benefits and costs associated with engineering projects
Answer: b) The efficient allocation of goods and factors of production in an economy
Q31. What is the scope of engineering economics?
a) To measure the output of work compared to the expected outcome
b) To provide goods and services that satisfy the consumer at an affordable cost
c) To systematically evaluate the benefits and costs of projects involving engineering design and analysis
d) To distribute or allocate all goods and factors of production to their most valuable uses
Answer: c) To systematically evaluate the benefits and costs of projects involving engineering design and analysis
Q32. What is the opportunity/alternative cost?
a) The cost that is brought by giving the money and have a record
b) The second best investment option
c) The cost that goes on decreasing with the asset
d) The cost associated with improving developer experience, maintaining org tempo, and staying aligned with business needs
Answer: b) The second best investment option
Q33. What is marginal revenue?
a) The efficient allocation of goods and factors of production in an economy
b) A measure of the benefits and costs associated with engineering projects
c) A measure used to determine the amount of output that will maximize profits
d) The ratio between the energy needed to power an engine or process and the energy the engine or process creates
Answer: c) A measure used to determine the amount of output that will maximize profits
Q33. What is the law of demand?  
(a) The quantity demanded of a good or service increases as its price increases 
(b) The quantity demanded of a good or service decreases as its price increases  
(c) The quantity supplied of a good or service increases as its price increases  
(d) The quantity supplied of a good or service decreases as its price increases.   


Answer: (b)


Q34. What is the difference between a shift and a movement along a demand curve


(a) A shift occurs when there is a change in price while a movement occurs when there is a change in any other factor affecting demand 
(b) A shift occurs when there is a change in any other factor affecting demand while a movement occurs when there is a change in price 
(c) A shift occurs when there is a change in quantity demanded while a movement occurs when there is a change in demand 
(d) A shift occurs when there is a change in demand while a movement occurs when there is a change in quantity demanded


Answer: (b)
Unit 2


Q1. What is the break-even point in a business?
A) The point at which a company makes a profit
B) The point at which a company breaks even and covers all of its costs
C) The point at which a company has no revenue
D) The point at which a company goes bankrupt
Answer: B




Q2. What are fixed costs in a business?
A) Costs that vary with the level of production
B) Costs that remain the same regardless of how many units are sold
C) Costs that are incurred only if the business makes a profit
D) Costs that are incurred only if the business makes a loss
Answer: B


Q3.What is the purpose of elementary economic analysis?
A) To evaluate different alternatives and make optimal decisions
B) To calculate the profit of a business
C) To determine the break-even point of a business
D) To analyze the cash flow of a business
Answer: A


Q4. What is depreciation in accounting?
A) A means of cost allocation
B) A means of generating revenue
C) A means of reducing expenses
D) A means of increasing assets
Answer: A


Q5. What is the first step in budget analysis?
A) Choose your budgeting strategy
B) Decide on a time frame
C) Track the company's budget
D) Analyze your results
Answer: A


Q6.What are variable costs in a business?
A) Costs that remain the same regardless of how many units are sold
B) Costs that vary with the level of production
C) Costs that are incurred only if the business makes a profit
D) Costs that are incurred only if the business makes a loss
Answer: B


Q7. What is the purpose of material selection in technical design?
A) To allocate costs to tangible assets
B) To evaluate different alternatives and make optimal decisions
C) To match material properties with technical design requirements
D) To analyze the cash flow of a business
Answer: C


Q8. What is the purpose of a budget analysis?
A) To evaluate different alternatives and make optimal decisions
B) To calculate the profit of a business
C) To determine the break-even point of a business
D) To evaluate a business' financial well-being
Answer: D


Q9. What is the second step in budget analysis?
A) Choose your budgeting strategy
B) Decide on a time frame
C) Track the company's budget
D) Analyze your results
Answer: B


Q9. What is the break-even point of sale?
A) The point at which a company makes a profit
B) The point at which a company breaks even and covers all of its costs
C) The point at which a company has no revenue
D) The point at which a company goes bankrupt
Answer: B


Q10. What is the current ratio of a company if its current assets are Rs. 500,000 and current liabilities are Rs. 250,000?
a) 0.5
b) 1.5
c) 2 (Answer)
d) 3


Explanation:
The current ratio is calculated by dividing current assets by current liabilities. Therefore, current ratio = current assets / current liabilities
Current ratio = 500,000 / 250,000 = 2
Q11. A company has total sales of Rs. 2,000,000 and gross profit of Rs. 500,000. What is the gross profit ratio of the company?
a) 10%
b) 20% (Answer)
c) 25%
d) 30%
Explanation:
The gross profit ratio is calculated by dividing the gross profit by total sales and multiplying by 100. Therefore, gross profit ratio = (gross profit / total sales) * 100
Gross profit ratio = (500,000 / 2,000,000) * 100 = 25%
Q12. If the debtors of a company are Rs. 200,000 and the credit sales are Rs. 1,000,000, what is the average collection period assuming 365 days in a year?
a) 18 days
b) 36 days (Answer)
c) 72 days
d) 180 days
Explanation:
The average collection period is calculated by dividing the number of days in a year by the debtor turnover ratio. Therefore, average collection period = (365 days / debtor turnover ratio)
Debtor turnover ratio = credit sales / average debtors
Debtor turnover ratio = 1,000,000 / 200,000 = 5
Average collection period = 365 / 5 = 73 days (approx.)
Therefore, the correct answer is b) 36 days (approx.)
Q13. If a company has current assets of Rs. 300,000 and current liabilities of Rs. 100,000, what is the working capital of the company?
a) Rs. 100,000
b) Rs. 200,000 (Answer)
c) Rs. 300,000
d) Rs. 400,000
Explanation:
Working capital is calculated by subtracting current liabilities from current assets. Therefore, working capital = current assets - current liabilities
Working capital = 300,000 - 100,000 = Rs. 200,000
Q14. What is the stock turnover ratio of a company if its cost of goods sold is Rs. 500,000 and the average stock is Rs. 100,000?
a) 0.2
b) 2 (Answer)
c) 5
d) 20


Explanation:
The stock turnover ratio is calculated by dividing the cost of goods sold by the average stock. Therefore, stock turnover ratio = cost of goods sold / average stock
Stock turnover ratio = 500,000 / 100,000 = 5 times (approx.)
Therefore, the correct answer is b) 2 times (approx.)
Q15. When current ratio is 2: 1 and if there is an equal increase in current assets and current liabilities would result in


1. No change in current ratio
2. Increase in current ratio
3. Decrease in current ratio
4. Current ratio will double


Answer: 3


Q16. Minimum Support Price is recommended by which of the following institutions?


1. Food Corporation of India
2. Food and Agriculture Organization
3. Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices
4. Ministry of Food and Agriculture


Answer: 3


Q17. Which of the following is the most close to the definition of Oligopoly?


1. The cigarette industry
2. The barber shop
3. The welding shop
4. Wheat growing farmers


Answer: 1


Q18. Which of the following is not a regulatory institution in Indian financial system?
a) RBI
b) CIBIL
c) SEBI 
d) IRDA


Answer: B


Q19. Financial institutions are also known as ______________.


a) Financial organization
b) Financial intermediaries
c) Financial system 
d) Any of the above


Answer: B


Q20. Which is considered as the mother of all Central Banks?
 
a) Bank of England 
b) Risks Bank of Sweden 
c) Federal Reserve Bank 
d) Reserve Bank of India


Answer: A


Q21. Which among the following is incorrect?


a) RBI is the Bank of Issue
b) RBI acts as Banker to the Government
c) RBI is Bankers Bank
d) RBI does not regulate the flow of credit


Answer: D


Q22. RRBs are managed by


a) RBI
b) a board of director
c) the sponsor bank
d) the state Gov


Answer: b


Q23. High inflation levels in the economy leads to _______ in the supply of money.


A. Increase
B. Decrease
C. No change
D. None of the above
Answer: a


Q24. A government resorts to __________ to reduce inflation.


1. Cuts in government spending
2. Increase in government expenditure
3. Reduction in repo rate
4. None of the above


Answer: a


Q25. _____ is an effective method to control inflation in the economy.


a. Cash reserve ratio
b. Selective control of credit
c. Bank rate policy
d. None of the above


Answer: a


Q26. When inflation is a result of an increase in the price of factors of production, the result is ________.


a. Stagflation
b. Cost-push inflation
c. Demand-pull inflation
d. None of the above


Answer: b


Q26. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) can take the measure of _________ to control inflation within the country.


a. Rationing of credit
b. Introducing a progressive tax system
c. Improving profits of the public sector
d. Controlling public expenditure
Answer: a


Q27. he combination of stagnation and inflation is known as _____.




a. Stagflation
b. Cost-push inflation
c. Demand-pull inflation
d. None of the above


Answer: a


Q28. When too much money chasing too few goods, the resulting Inflation is called:
(a) Deflation
(b) Demand-pull Inflation
(c) Cost push inflation
(d) Stagflation
Answer: (b) 


Q29. In India, Inflation is measured by


(a) Consumer Price Index
(b) Agricultural price Index
(c) Industrial Price Index
(d) Wholesale Price Index.


Answer: (d) Wholesale Price Index.


Q30. Which organization calculates the Gross Domestic Product for India?


a. Central Statistics Office (CSO)
b. Department of Economic Affairs (DEA)
c. National Sample Survey Office (NSSO)
d. None of the above


Answer: a


Q31. The calculation of National Income at market prices is called ___________.


Non-monetary income
Money income
Real income
None of the above


Answer: b


Q32 Which of the following is not a method to calculate the Gross Domestic Product (GDP)?


(a) Product method


(b) Income law


(c) Expenditure method


(d) Diminishing cost method


Ans: d


Q33. Which of the following statements is correct?


(a) GDP at factor cost = Net Value Addition + Depreciation 


(b) GDP at factor cost = Net Value Addition - Depreciation


(c) GDP at factor cost = Net price increase + indirect tax 


(d) GDP at factor cost = Net price increase + direct tax 


Ans: a


Q34. Which statement is correct for nominal GDP?


i. Nominal GDP is calculated based on current prices.
ii. Nominal GDP is calculated based on the base prices.
iii. Data on Nominal GDP shows an accurate picture of the economy as compared to real GDP.


(a) Only ii, iii


(b) only ii


(c) only i


(d) i, iii


Ans: c


Q35. The value of which work is added in the calculation of GDP?


(a) Housewives' works


(b) A teacher teaching his own child


(c) The value of resale of old shares


(d) Construction of new house by an artisan


Ans: d


Explanation: The value of the construction of a new house is added in the calculation of the GDP because it is a new production work in the economy


Q36. Which sector contributes the most income to India's economy?


(a) Primary sector


(b) Secondary sector


(c) Tertiary sector


(d) None of these


Ans: c


Q37. With respect to final accounts, which of the following statements is incorrect?


1. The income statement shows either net profit or net loss for a particular period.
2. All liabilities that are due for payment within a year are classified as long-term liabilities.
3. Salary paid in advance is not an expense as it neither reduces assets nor increases liabilities.
4. A loss is an expense that does not bring any profit to the entity.


Answer: 2










Unit 3


Q1. What is a sunk cost? 


(a) A cost that has already been incurred and cannot be recovered 
(b) A cost that can be avoided by taking a different action 
(c) A cost that is relevant for future decisions
(d) A cost that is variable and changes with the level of output. 


Answer: A


Explanation A cost that has already been incurred and cannot be recovered is sunken or sunk cost (It is related to depreciation unit 3 we have asked this question here instead of unit 1)


Q2. What is the difference between a static budget and a flexible budget? 


(a) A static budget is based on actual output while a flexible budget is based on planned output (b) A static budget is prepared at the beginning of the period while a flexible budget is prepared at the end of the period 
(c) A static budget is based on one level of output while a flexible budget is based on different levels of output 
(d) A static budget is used for planning while a flexible budget is used for control. 


Answer: C


Explanation: The fact that static budget is less effective than dynamic at adapting to changes which means while planning less no of parameters ( output ) are considered


Q3. What is the formula for calculating the net present value of an investment project? 


(a) NPV = Present value of cash inflows - Present value of cash outflows 
(b) NPV = Present value of cash outflows - Present value of cash inflows 
(c) NPV = Future value of cash inflows - Future value of cash outflows 
(d) NPV = Future value of cash outflows - Future value of cash inflows. 


Answer: A


Q4. The breakeven point that represents level of output at which


A. total revenue = 0
B. total revenue = total cost
C. total revenue > total cost
D..total revenue < total cost


Answer: B


Q5.  The analysis which focuses on the firm's profitability is classified as


A. profit analysis
B. marginal analysis
C. production analysis
D. break-even analysis


Answer: D


Q6. The main concern in analysis of firm's break-even analysis is identifying level of output which results in


A. zero profit
B. high profit
C. low profit
D. market leading profits


Answer: A


Q7. Which of the following are assumptions for break-even analysis?


A) Elements of cost cannot be divided in different groups.


B) Fixed cost remains certain from zero production to full capacity.


C) Behavior of different costs is linear


D) Selling per price unit remains constant.


a) A, B, C
b) B, C, D
c) A, C, D
d) A, B, D


Answer: B


Q8. While measuring break-even analysis, it is considered that during a specific period there will be no change in general price level, i.e., labor, cost of material and other overheads.


a) True
b) False


Answer: A


Q9. What is the opportunity cost of a choice? 


(a) The value of the best alternative forgone 
(b) The sum of the benefits of all the alternatives 
(c) The difference between the benefits and costs of the choice 
(d) The cost of producing the chosen good or service. Answer: (a)


Answer: A


Q10. Which of the following is true with regard to food security?


A. Food security exists when the government maintains a buffer stock of grains for the next five years.
B. Government imposes a ban on grain exports for maintaining sufficient stock.
C. Government encourages to produce organic foods for better and secure health.
D. Food security exists when all people, at all times, have access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food.


Answer: D








Q11. The life cycle of a product includes


a) extraction of natural resources
b) processing of raw materials
c) manufacturing of products
d) all of the mentioned


Answer: D


Q12. Considerations of costing systems are


a) life cycle costs
b) machine usage
c) cost of purchasing machinery
d) all of the mentioned


Answer: d


Explanation:


Depreciation, for example, an abatement in a resource's worth, might be brought about by various elements also, negative economic situations, and so forth Apparatus, hardware, money are a few instances of resources that are probably going to devalue throughout a particular time frame. The inverse of devaluation is an appreciation which is an expansion in the worth of a resource throughout some period.


Q13. What is the principal objective of Depreciation?


A. Show last year's profit.
B. Show records to the Income Tax Department.
C. To get a tax rebate.
D. To calculate net profit.


Answer: D) To calculate net profit
 
Q14. What causes Depreciation?
1. Loss of goods
2. Purchase of Goods
3. Increased Liability
4. Wear & Tear
Answer: D) Wear & Tear
Q15.  What is the reason behind making a provision for depreciation in accounts?


A. To show the current value of assets
B. To show current liabilities
C. To charge the cost of assets against profits
D. To purchase new assets


Answer: C)


Q17. The Depreciation remains constant according to which method?


A. Sum of years digit
B. Units of production
C. Declining Balance
D. Straight Line Method


Answer: D) Straight Line Method


Q18. What is Depreciable Value?


A. The combined cost of purchase and installation of an asset can be depreciated minus its salvage value.
B. The worth of a physical asset's components when the asset itself is deemed no longer usable.
C. Represents the value of a company according to the stock market.
D. The estimated resale value of an asset at the end of its useful life.


Answer: A)


Q19. Define Market Value?
1. The combined cost of purchase and installation of an asset can be depreciated minus its salvage value
2. The worth of a physical asset's components when the asset itself is deemed no longer usable
3. Represents the value of a company according to the stock market
4. The estimated resale value of an asset at the end of its useful life
Answer: C)
Q20. What is the Fixed Installment Method?
1. The amount of depreciation each year is fixed and equal.
2. Way to work out the loss of value of an asset over time.
3. System of recording larger depreciation expenses during the earlier years.
4. An accelerated method for calculating an asset's depreciation.
Answer: A)


Q21. What is the Declining Balance Method?
1. The amount of depreciation each year is fixed and equal.
2. Way to work out the loss of value of an asset over time.
3. System of recording larger depreciation expenses during the earlier years.
4. An accelerated method for calculating an asset's depreciation.
Answer: C) 
Q22. What is the Sum of Years Digit?


A. The amount of depreciation each year is fixed and equal.
B. Way to work out the loss of value of an asset over time.
C. System of recording larger depreciation expenses during the earlier years.
D. An accelerated method for calculating an asset's depreciation.


Answer: D)


Q23.  What is the Unit of Production Method?


A. The amount of depreciation each year is fixed and equal.
B. Way to work out the loss of value of an asset over time.
C. System of recording larger depreciation expenses during the earlier years.
D. Method of calculating the depreciation of the value of an asset over time.


Answer: D)


Q24. Depreciation on machinery will be debited in which account?
1. Cash Account
2. Balance Sheet
3. Depreciation Account
4. Machinery Account
Answer: C)
Q25. A company decides to declare INR 200000 as cash dividend to shareholders. It will be reflected in the cash flow statement as a cash outflow under activities.


1. Operating activities
2. Financing activities
3. Investing activities
4. Accounting activities


Answer: 2


Q26. According to the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), which of the following is a cash flow from a financing activity?


1. cash outflow to the government for taxes
2. cash outflow to shareholders as dividends
3. cash outflow to lenders as interest
4. cash outflow to purchase bonds issued by another company


Answer: 2


Q27. Cash flow statement classifies cash flows on the basis of


1. Operating activities only
2. Operating and financing activities only
3. Operating and investing activities only
4. Operating, financing and investing activities


Answer Option 4


Q28. Cash Flow Analysis is an important financial tool for the management. Its chief advantages are
(a) Helps in cash management
(b) Helps in external financial management
(c) Helps in internal financial management
(d) Discloses the movements of cash
Which of the following options is correct?


1. (a), (c) and (d) only
2. (a), (b) and (d) only
3. (a) and (d) only
4. (a), (b), (c) and (d)


Answer (Detailed Solution Below)
Option 1: (a), (c) and (d) only


Q29. The method that ignores cash generation beyond period when cash inflow exceeds investment


1. Pay back method.
2. ARR
3. NPV
4. IRR


Answer: Option 1


Q30. Total amount of depreciation of an asset cannot exceed its


(a) Depreciable value


(b) Scrap value


(c) Market value


(d) None of these


Answer: A


Q33. Salvage value means


(a) Definite sale price of the asset


(b) Cash to be received when life of the asset ends


(c) Cash to be paid when asset is disposed off


(d) Estimated disposal value


Answer: D


Q34.  In accounting, becoming out of date or obsolete is known as


(a) Amortization


(b) Obsolescence


(c) Depletion


(d) Physical deterioration


Answer: B


Q35. Which report gives a review on the profitability of a business?


(a) Statement of changes in equity


(b) Cash flow statement


(c) Balance sheet


(d) Income statement


Answer: d


Q36. When assets are subtracted from liabilities it will be equal to?


(a) Capital


(b) Net income


(c) Working capital


(d) Goodwill


Answer: a


Q37. Which statement shows the flow of cash and cash equivalents during the financial period?


(a) Statement of changes in equity


(b) Cash flow statement


(c) Balance sheet


(d) Income statement


Answer: b


Q38. With respect to final accounts, which of the following statements is incorrect?
1. The income statement shows either net profit or net loss for a particular period.
2. All liabilities that are due for payment within a year are classified as long-term liabilities.
3. Salary paid in advance is not an expense as it neither reduces assets nor increases liabilities.
4. A loss is an expense that does not bring any profit to the entity.


Answer: 2


Q39. ﻿When net profit is Rs 44,000 and profit on sale of a fixed asset is Rs 4,000, what is the fund from operations?


1. Rs 40,000
2. Rs 44,000
3. Rs 48,000
4. Cannot be computed


Answer: 1


Explanation:  Fund from operation = Net Profit - Non-operating income(sale of the fixed asset)
= Rs. 44,000 - Rs. 4,000
= Rs. 40,000
Therefore, When net profit is Rs. 44,000 and profit on the sale of a fixed asset is Rs. 4,000, the fund from operations will be Rs. 40,000.